about/index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Some Background
tags: [about, Jekyll, theme, responsive]
modified: 2014-08-08T20:53:07.573882-04:00
image:
  feature: Sri_Lanka.jpg
  credit: Trains in Colombo - the ride to Kandy.
  creditlink: 
---

I'm a Pennsylvanian dropped in San Francisco. I moved to the West Coast a few years ago for a Stanford MBA and spent much of my time building things - or at least trying to :).

&nbsp;<Enter> 

I'm fascinated by the changing role of information in products and society, and get to explore this transformation daily with BCG Gamma, [BCG's Advanced Analytics and Data Science][1] team. My hope is to use this site for practice and to share some things I've learned (thus, "Perpetually Learning").

&nbsp;<Enter>

I'm passionate about the development and scaling of technologies that provide broad social benefit - including prior work at [Peloton Technology][2] (automating freight transportation), [Aclima][3] (air quality sensing), and [Embrace][4] (developing world healthcare). 

&nbsp;<Enter>

In prior lives, I was a Bain consultant and Teach For America corps member. I love soccer, education (and educational equity), ramen, whiskey, the Rockies, The Last Waltz, and whiskey. Please feel free to reach out at any time!

[1]: http://www.svds.com/
[2]: http://www.peloton-tech.com/
[3]: http://aclima.io/
[4]: http://www.embraceinnovations.com/

Commit message:

Adding about me, done, and jekyll articles.

about/index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Some Background
tags: [about, Jekyll, theme, responsive]
modified: 2014-08-08T20:53:07.573882-04:00
image:
  feature: Sri_Lanka.jpg
  credit: Trains in Colombo - the ride to Kandy.
  creditlink: 
---

I'm a Pennsylvanian dropped in San Francisco. I moved to the West Coast a few years ago for a Stanford MBA and spent much of my time building things - or at least trying to :).

&nbsp;<Enter> 

I believe machine learning has the potential to change the way we do business, and am fortunate get to explore this transformation daily with BCG Gamma, [BCG's Advanced Analytics and Data Science][1] team. 

&nbsp;<Enter>

Making effective use of ML is a hard challenge - it's new technology, new techniques, and asks us to change our habits and interactions. **My hope is to use this site in three ways:**
* To **share what I've learned in leading ML projects** (in the event it might be useful for others)
* To **work through ideas around effective reskilling** and growing ML capabilities in organizations (particularly via government and public-private initiatives)
* To **document my own ongoing practice** and learning - there is always more to know. :)

Because of this, "Perpetually Learning" seemed like the right name for the blog.

&nbsp;<Enter>

Outside of work, a few things that are important to me: supporting my friends and family, education (and educational equity), live concerts (or watching - The Last Waltz!), soccer, whiskey, and the Rockies. Please feel free to reach out at any time. I would love to hear from you.

[1]: https://www.bcg.com/beyond-consulting/bcg-gamma/default.aspx
